doc(upgrade): add known issue for v1.3.1 to v1.3.2 upgrades (#635)
harvester/docs: versioned_docs/version-v1.3/upgrade/v1-3-1-to-v1-3-2.md

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Upgrade from v1.3.1 to v1.3.2
title: "Upgrade from v1.3.1 to v1.3.2"
---

<head>
  <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.harvesterhci.io/v1.3/upgrade/v1-3-1-to-v1-3-2"/>
</head>

## General information

An **Upgrade** button appears on the **Dashboard** screen whenever a new Harvester version that you can upgrade to becomes available. For more information, see [Start an upgrade](./automatic.md#start-an-upgrade).

For air-gapped environments, see [Prepare an air-gapped upgrade](./automatic.md#prepare-an-air-gapped-upgrade).

## Known issues

---

### 1. Two-node cluster upgrade stuck after the first node is pre-drained

:::info important

> It is advisable to shut down all the workload VMs before conducting the upgrade for **two-node** cluster upgrades.

Author: Shutting down the VMs is just a means to prevent potential data loss. This known issue itself is inevitable. We don't have a way to prevent it. Well, technically, there is a way, but that's infeasible for most users, and we don't want them to take the risks.

What's your suggestion for this paragraph according to the fact?

> It is advisable to shut down all the workload VMs before conducting the upgrade for **two-node** cluster upgrades.

Reviewer: Suggestion: Shut down all workload VMs before upgrading **two-node clusters** to prevent data loss.

*We should always try to explain the reasoning behind recommendations. Also, when severe consequences such as data loss and irreparable system damage are involved, preventative actions should be required instead of just recommended.*

  ```

To resolve the upgrade stuck, restarting the `rke2-agent` service on the worker node is required.

```
# On the worker node
sudo systemctl restart rke2-agent.service
```

The upgrade should resume after the `rke2-agent` service is fully restarted.

:::note

The root cause is the agent load balancer on the worker node fails to construct connections to the API server running on the management node after the `rke2-server` service is restarted. Since the `rke2-server` service can be restarted multiple times during the node-upgrade phase, the upgrade might be stuck again. Therefore, users might be required to restart the `rke2-agent` service on the worker node multiple times.

A simple way to verify whether the agent load balancer is not functioning is by running the following command on the worker node (please ensure the `rke2-server` service on the management node is running before conducting the command):

```
# On the management node, check if the rke2-server service is running
sudo systemctl status rke2-server.service

# On the worker node
sudo /var/lib/rancher/rke2/bin/kubectl --kubeconfig=/var/lib/rancher/rke2/agent/kubelet.kubeconfig get nodes
```

> If the above `kubectl` command hangs, it indicates that `kubelet` cannot access the API server via the agent load balancer. Thus, a restart of the `rke2-agent` service is required.
> 
> :::
> 
> For more details on this known issue, please refer to [the GitHub issue](https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/6432#issuecomment-2325488465).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the kubectl command does not return a response, the kubelet is unable to access the API server via the agent load balancer. You must restart the `rke2-agent` service.

:::

For more information, see [Issue #6432](https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/6432#issuecomment-2325488465).
```
